---
layout: post
title: Passion
author: Rashmi

---

While scrolling any social media feed, there are high chances that you come across deep thinking quotes inspiring you to “follow your passion”.
They say we are just a “courage” away from our dream.
TBH, reading such posts helps boost ourselves for a while before we resume back to the never-ending sea of feed.

There is a major flaw with such kind of motivation.
They focus on what passion you want to follow.
They must rather focus on acquiring rare and valuable skills that can help build a great career and love for what you do (read it as passion).
Cal Newport in his book (with a cool click-bait name) — So Good They Can’t Ignore You has radically questioned a belief that we have always dreamt of — “Follow your Passion”. This sounds controversial to a lot of popular opinions marketed by self-proclaimed success gurus.
Talking more about the book — it is divided into two parts:
Why “Follow your Passion” is flawed?
Many successful people including Steve Jobs had complicated stories and not just a pre-existing passion.
However, many of us who haven’t discovered the passion yet, believe that there is something out there which we are meant to do.
Passion comes after you put in the hard work to become excellent at something valuable and rare, not before.
What else then?
This is the part of the book that I like the most and I recommend reading.
These are the actionable tips that can be followed to get a career of which we can be passionate about.
What to do?
To achieve something rare and valuable, we need to offer something rare and beautiful in return.
Hone the skills like a craftsman by a relentless focus on acquiring “Career Capital” (A term introduced in the book)
This can be done by deliberate practice and stretching ability to a point beyond comfort accompanied by patience.
Cal Newport has talked more about this in his other famous book “Deep Work”. (You can get a quick summary here)
Doing side projects, learning on the job, and receiving constant feedback shapes this practice and prevents hitting the plateau state of skills.
Investing Career Capital:
Career capital can be cashed for great opportunities and hence can help you gain more control over your life.
At this stage, one can be tempted to follow an appealing path to get more control over life.
While taking such a crucial decision, ask — ‘Will people be willing to pay for it?” This will answer all the questions to ensure that you make a sustainable decision.
All ready to pursue passion and mission:
By this time, you have built rare and valuable skills. You have more control over your life. This is the time when you have better clarity of what mission you would want to pursue in the next few years of life.
Pick up little ventures to explore the potential of any mission.
Learn from failures and quick wins.
These concrete and remarkable experiments return valuable feedback.
This will align the mission in the correct direction.
Regarding the book —
This is a short book (~200 pages) however there are many repetitions and iterations. As mentioned before, the second part of the book feels more interesting and relatable.
You can read the complete book to know more about the stories and anecdotes that have been used to support and derive the points discussed above.